- Previously on The Strain...
(woman screaming)
- Oh, my God!
- Dr. Barnes,
Dr. Goodweather worked
under you at the CDC,
did he not?
- Goodweather went rogue.
I did everything
I could do to stop him!
As of now,
you are no longer involved.
I had him arrested by the FBI.
- These are vicious predators.
They need to be put down.
We're gonna take back Staten
Island one block at a time.
Staten Island is
a plague-free zone.
- Finding a cure or making
a vaccine is nearly impossible,
but what we can do
is take everything we know
about how to stop an epidemic
and use that knowledge
to start one.
- Infect the infected.
- Break the chain.
- He's infected
and it's spreading.
The Master's forcing them
to commit suicide.
It works.
- Open up! Police!
(baby crying)
- This is
a mandatory evacuation!
- Relax. My wife,
she's very sick.
- She's gonna have to go
downstairs and get tested.
- Clear!
- Move it!
- Go! Go! - Let's go!
- OK, OK, OK.
- Ma'am, we need
to take a look around.
- We stay in curfew!
- This is a safety procedure.
- Oh, shit.
(growling)
- You gotta watch out
for the white goo. You clean?
- Yeah, I'm good.
- All right, all clear
on the seventh floor?
- Clearing the last one now,
Captain.
Bathroom's clear.
Mikey, I got a kid here.
Are you OK?
Where are your parents?
You're supposed to get
downstairs, all right?
Honey, let's go find
your family. Come on.
(growling)
(man screaming)
(creature screaming)
(man moaning)
- Captain, Dempsey's down.
I need backup: apartment 710.
Come on.
(creature screaming)
- What the hell is that thing?
(creature croaking)
- It doesn't matter.
Just kill it.
- Captain, behind you!
- Jesus, they're fast.
Come on, you're fine.
You're gonna be fine.
Got a little bit more.
Come on.
You'll be all right. OK.
All right.
(strange croaking)
(screaming)
No! Ah! Ah!
- Hey, fall back, fall back!
Everybody, fall back!
We've got to get out of here!
(indistinct chatter)
- Hey, ma'am--
- Stop!
She's just got the flu!
- Sir, get back!
- Grandpa, no!
- Standard operating procedure.
Folks, a little
cooperation, please.
- You all right, Dempsey?
- I'm OK...
A little weak, but...
it didn't get me in the neck,
thank God.
- Yeah, thank God.
(siren blaring)
(creatures croaking
and clicking)
(humming a lullaby)
(theme music)
- (man): I got the beers!
(indistinct chatter)
(rock music playing)
- Hey...
- We're good.
- Hi.
I'm a friend
of Dutch Velders.
- Come in.
- So, three IDs, she said?
- Oh! We have IDs.
We just need
new names.
- Interesting.
Ephraim Goodweather
from the news...
So how's
the fugitive life going?
- Don't believe everything
you see on TV.
- I said I saw it;
I never said I gave a shit.
(typing)
OK, government ID
will get you out of the city,
but seeing as you're having
your 15 minutes of fame,
you might want
to change your appearance.
(typing very fast)
(siren blaring)
(dogs barking)
- QUIET!
SIT!
(clanging)
(metal detector
zipping and beeping)
- It's just a walking stick.
The handle is metal,
as you can see.
- Go!
- Who sent you here,
old man?
- I've heard about you
from several
of my former
business associates.
Like you, I'm a buyer
and seller of things, Mr. Creem,
but on a smaller scale.
- Let's see what you brought.
- I'm here to buy.
- What would you like to buy?
- The Occido Lumen,
a medieval text that hasn't been
seen in many years.
I'm hoping that in this calamity
the book might surface again.
- Book? Not an AK-47
or a pass to get you
out of the city
on a container ship?
You want a book?
- I'm prepared to make it
worth your while.
- Where did you get those?
- I've been holding onto them
for many years,
saving them for a time
when I needed them.
A time like this, perhaps.
- Well, thanks for
coming, old man.
I think I'll take those.
- A chain of events is about
to play out here, Mr. Creem.
Your loyal bodyguards will
riddle me with bullets,
but not before I draw this blade
across your throat.
To put it in language
we both understand,
you will not come out well
in this trade.
- Hey, you want,
you want a book?
I just bought some
old books, yeah?
They're around
here somewhere.
- Show me.
- (man on radio): ...press
conference this morning,
Mayor Lyle said that he's
satisfied with the progress...
- And then it's just a cab ride
over to the Pentagon
for some sort
of mass-dispersal plan.
The military is more prepared
for biological warfare
than we'd like to think.
Anyway, the point is,
we've got a shot.
You, me and Nora, we can set
the reset button
on this thing
and make it safe again
so we can go home.
- I'm not gonna
go home without Mom.
- (man on radio): ...New York
City encompasses
more than 300 square miles...
- You know
what magical thinking is, Zack?
(car alarm system ringing)
It's basically, it's, uh,
hoping for something
that's just not possible.
And you're getting
too old for that.
I really need your help here.
- You can't make me go with you.
- Sorry, buddy, I'm not leaving
you with a bunch of people
we hardly know.
- If I have to,
I can fend for myself!
- Eph, can I
talk to you for a second?
- Finish packing. - ...children
snatched overnight.
...at night,
slaughtering the innocent
without a police officer
or National Guard...
- Thanks.
Let's get packed. I want
to get on the 1:30 train.
- What are we
doing here, Eph?
- We tested the weapon twice.
It works. We gotta get moving.
- I agree. But let's think this
through for a second.
You're a fugitive,
I'm your known associate,
and he is your kid.
- I changed our names.
- Don't you think our little
family group is gonna draw
attention, especially passing
through security checkpoints
onto trains reserved
for government officials?
- I'm not leaving Zack behind.
(phone ringing)
- You wouldn't be leaving him.
- He would be here with me.
- Hello.
- You're not going?
- You need to be able
to fly under the radar.
And if something falls apart,
you need to just
drop everything and run.
- Well, Fet's been arrested.
- What, what do you mean?
- I mean he's in bloody
custody for trying
to blow up the
tunnel last night.
- Shit! - We're kind of
in the middle of something here.
- It's that Staten Island lady
and her goon squad.
I'm gonna go down there.
- I need to go with her.
She's gonna get arrested, too.
- No, no. Please, please.
You're right, I'm wrong.
It's not practical,
but I need you.
We're partners.
- I'm making the decision
this time, Eph.
You're gonna do this alone.
(vehicle honking)
(dog barking)
(siren blaring)
♪ ♪
- (man on radio): The brazen
robbery earlier this morning
by a highly organized group
of assailants
is further evidence
that the country
is teetering on the verge
of financial collapse.
Quote: "With the dollar
in freefall
"and recent runs
on Manhattan banks,
"people have begun
to turn to commodities
"as a more secure
form of assets."
In the last two weeks,
six major banks have closed
their branches in Manhattan
and evacuated their staff.
The financial sector expects
more banks to follow suit
in the coming weeks.
As in previous eras
of widespread conflict
or social upheaval,
precious gemstones, silver,
platinum and gold...
- (Eph): Zack?
- Whoa.
- Yeah.
Well, it'll grow back.
- The old safety net... - You're
going to stay here with Nora.
She's out for a bit right now,
but she'll be back soon.
- I think you should
stay here, too.
- Zack, if we're gonna have
any chance of stopping
this thing, I need to do this.
Maybe you'll even
appreciate it someday.
- In other news,
a riot...
- OK. I gotta go.
Can I at least get a hug?
Hey, wish me luck.
- Good luck.
(clamor)
(irate woman talking
in foreign language)
- You're not the only ones
who have a problem
with these people.
- Everybody, calm down.
QUIET!
(clamor continues)
If you have concerns,
there is a sign-up sheet.
Now--
- Give me the bullhorn.
All right, listen.
I want you back in your homes
as much as you do,
but right now--
(sound feedback)
What is this? Jesus!
- What are we supposed to do?
- Right now
- Right now what?
- your homes are not safe.
My crews, they are out there
day and night -
some of them
losing their lives -
but they will win back
your neighborhoods for you.
Give us some time
and your support.
(clamor)
But anyone showing symptoms
needs to go into quarantine
for 72 hours.
(people protesting)
We've got to find out
if they're infected. I know
it's a pain in the ass being
separated that long, but we've
got to keep everybody safe!
(clamor)
(phone ringing)
(people talking)
- Excuse me.
I'm Dr. Nora Martinez.
I'm a biochemist with the CDC.
- And?
- You don't need to quarantine
people for three days.
I have a way of diagnosing
people who are infected
within one or two hours.
- Yeah, how's that?
- I'll show you. But first,
you have to do
something for me.
(Beep!)
- Fet! Vasiliy Fet!
- I had a great time, huh?
Reunion? A year from now,
same time, same place.
You'd better show up, Griselda.
- Mm-hmm.
(indistinct chatter)
(phones ringing)
- Your face!
- I thought you'd like it.
That's why I asked them
to go at me so hard.
- You! Oi!
- Mm-hmm. Yeah.
You see this?
- So, we're letting
the Brooklyn Bomber walk, huh?
You must have powerful friends.
- He was helping you!
You'd understand that
if you didn't have your head
shoved so far up your--
- She's foreign, huh?
Let me translate.
I didn't blow up the tunnel
because I get off
on damaging my inner ear, huh?
I did it to cut off
vamp access into--
- I know why you did it.
All right? We just can't have
civilians setting off charges
wherever they feel like it. Even
if they do it decently well.
What are you,
ex-Special Forces or something?
- No, my father
would have drowned me
before he let me join the army.
I'm a city exterminator.
- With a dynamite fetish?
- He's the best
creature hunter in New York.
- I also have a fetish
for silver grenades.
- Silver what?
- They burn the shit
out of the munchers.
You know, it's not as good
as ultraviolet light but...
- You don't know about the
silver or the UVC?
Well, how the hell
have you been killing them?
- Shooting their heads off.
- That works, too.
- Yeah, usually, except
for the little spider-kids.
- The... The what?
- Last night we were driven out
of this housing complex
by these little spider-kids.
They're fast as hell;
they can climb anything.
You haven't seen 'em?
You know, maybe they're
still there, maybe they're not.
Either way, I've gotta go back
and finish clearing the place,
but now I'm down two men.
- We'll get our stuff.
(loud clamor)
- Sorry, excuse me.
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Pardon me. Sorry.
- Look, buddy, wait your turn!
- CDC! CDC!
- (intercom):
A valid government-issued ID
is required for clearance
from Homeland Security.
(inaudible talking)
♪ ♪
- Hey, how's it going?
- What's your business
in Washington?
- I live in Washington.
I'm going home.
- How long have you been
in New York?
- Since February 12th. Four days
after the plane landed.
- You're with the CDC.
- That's right.
- And now you're leaving?
- We have a response deployment
meeting tomorrow.
We're sending more teams
back up here.
(people shouting)
- Can I see your driver's
license, please?
- I don't drive.
- (intercom): This is the final
boarding call for 130
Northeast Corridor Express
to Washington, DC.
- That's my train.
- Have a safe trip home.
- Thank you for your service.
(train horn)
♪ ♪
(indistinct chatter)
Keep the change.
- Thanks.
- We're gonna have
to push that meeting with
the Surgeon General.
Tell him something, whatever.
- OK. I'll just move
the Secretary of Transportation
to 4:30.
- Perfect.
- Mind if I sit here?
- Have at it.
(distant siren blaring)
(helicopter whirring)
- It's not here.
Oh, and another thing.
It allegedly has
a silver cover.
- Allegedly?
- This is an 18-karat
gold Patek Philippe 2484.
A down payment,
if you will.
This one,
this is a Reference 1563
Split-Second Chronograph.
Only three are known to exist.
This is the fourth.
If you find me my book,
then it's yours.
- Actually...
I do know someone who deals
with the kind of shit
you're looking for.
Religious iconography
and that sort of stuff.
What's the book called again?
- The Occido Lumen. Double C.
- Haha!
- What department are you with?
- CDC.
- Huh.
I bet you're keeping busy.
- Pretty busy. How about you?
- I'm a lawyer
with the Energy Department.
I got caught in the quarantine.
Thank God for government jobs,
I'll tell you that.
I finally got
cleared to travel.
I'm Neil Archer.
What's your name?
- Jonathan. Jonathan Crowley.
- I feel like I've seen you
somewhere before.
- Yeah, I get that a lot.
- Huh.
You pick those up
in the bar car?
- Yeah.
- Right.
I'll be right back.
♪ ♪
- You're clear.
A person may not even have
physical symptoms yet.
- You're clear.
(woman speaking
foreign language)
- Baby! How are you?
Are you OK? Yeah?
- Over there.
- You need some air.
- I don't know if we should
wait for him to turn...
- It should be his decision.
His and his family.
- You're right.
I'll go talk to the family.
Do you mind taking a look
at someone else for me?
(machine beeping)
It's my nephew, Mikey.
He got knocked down some stairs
last night and landed
on his head. Our doctor,
he thinks he'll probably be OK,
but, um, I noticed a little cut
on his face, there.
I just want to be sure.
- I'm so sorry.
- Forget I'm sorrys!
Can't we do something here?
- It's not possible.
It's not my opinion;
it's a scientific fact.
- How the hell can you be sure?
- My best friend was nicked,
much the same way
this boy's been.
We cut his face open with a box
cutter to get the worms out.
We were that desperate.
It was too late -
the worms were everywhere
inside him.
(sighing)
(Feraldo sniffling)
- Goddamn it!
- Hey! Yeah, yeah.
- Sir...
- What is that, like a silver
sword or something?
- Yeah. And silver grenades, and
silver nails in the nail gun.
- And what about the rebar?
That have some kind of special
properties I don't know about?
- Yeah. It doesn't bend.
(police radio chatter)
- Well, here we are
in the center of Red Hook.
We need to own
this neighborhood.
Let's do it.
(sucking and squishing sounds)
- So, wanna see
what silver can do?
(growling)
(screaming)
(croaking)
- Satisfying, no?
- It's OK. But why wouldn't I
just do this?
- Fair point.
(water running)
- (whispering): Fet.
(rapid thumping)
(thump)
- AH!
(thumping)
(vampire screaming)
(Fet grunting)
- It's all clear, Chief.
- Well, I know there's more
in here, I've seen 'em.
- You guys checked
the elevator?
- It's not working.
(grunting with effort)
♪ ♪
(growling)
- Fire in the hole!
(explosion)
(vampires screaming)
- OK, now I get
the silver thing.
(heart monitor beeping)
- I got the morphine.
- I've been thinking.
Maybe, I'd rather wait
until he turns.
It might make it
easier to do it.
- I don't know him,
but I think he would rather
go out as himself.
- I used to read to him
Goodnight Moon
and sing him to sleep.
- When you're ready,
just push the plunger in.
- I've been asking my people
to be OK with this.
I can't even do it.
(long beep)
♪ ♪
- (distant woman):
Oh, make it stop!
(distant siren blaring)
- Show yourself!
Fitzwilliam.
- I'm ready to help.
(can clattering)
(reading indistinctly)
"And if so,
♪ ♪
the accomplishment..."
(panting)
(knocking on door)
- (man): Homeland Security!
- I'll be out in a minute!
(knocking on door)
- (man): Sir!
Mandatory medical inspection!
(toilet flushing)
- Feeling feverish?
- No.
- Sore throat?
- Open your mouth, please.
Please.
In the past 72 hours, have you
had any physical contact
with a person who exhibited--
- I'm not infected.
I should know, I'm one
of the first people to discover
these symptoms.
- What's your name?
- Jonathan Crowley.
Dr. Jonathan Crowley.
- Got some ID?
- Thank you, Doctor.
- Goodweather!
- Shut up.
I'm not letting you
get in my way again.
- You think I like the position
they've put me in?
They nearly threw me
over a balcony, Eph.
I can't even sleep.
I barely eat.
- Then just let me go.
I've got a plan
to wipe out all the infected
and clean all this up.
- Well, that's great news.
I'll let you go.
I appreciate you still trying
to do something about this.
- You're lying.
- Trust me, Eph.
Ugh!
- I can't trust you, Barnes.
I know you.
(both grunting)
- (intercom): Next stop:
Baltimore Penn Station.
Please gather
all your belongings.
(wind roaring)
(train horn blowing)
- Shit!
- You're not
gonna win, Eph.
You can't beat them.
Now, don't be
stupid or naive and end up
on the wrong side of things.
In the meantime, there's no way
you're getting off this train.
I'm getting the cops.
(grunting)
AAAH!
(indistinct chatter)
- Mr. Palmer, sir!
So nice to see you.
Right this way.
- I thought we could use
a gentle reminder
that not every institution
in this city
is in a state of pandemonium.
- Yes, it seems so normal.
- Denial is a special privilege
of the rich.
(applause)
- Well done, sir.
- Thank you, sir.
- I really don't know
what they're applauding.
- They're applauding you for
actually trying to do something,
instead of ignoring
the problem, like them.
- If it isn't New York City's
own savior!
- Cardinal MacNamara!
- I didn't mean to interrupt.
You are...?
- This is Ms. Coco Marchand.
- It's an honor,
Your Eminence.
- I would ask you to join us,
but I imagine
you have other obligations.
- Ah, of course.
I just wanted to let you know
that a certain item
that you were looking for...
...might be turning up soon.
- Go on.
- Until I hear back
from my contact,
there's nothing to be done, so,
please, enjoy your evening.
And I'll be in touch.
- What was that all about?
- Oh, nothing.
- It didn't seem
like nothing.
- Cardinal MacNamara
is known for procuring
certain historic collectibles
from time to time.
- Is that allowed?
(both chuckling)
And this collectible
is something you want?
- Oh, yes, very much.
Now, I'm famished.
Shall we order?
(sirens blaring)
Oh...
- You never collected art?
- Oh, no. Only as an investment.
I'm not interested
in the aesthetics at all.
Oh, that was lovely.
- Oh, yes.
I can never thank you enough.
Oh, my God!
Oh, I hope there's
no one in there.
- Oh, I doubt there is
at this late hour.
Saves us having to bother
with our fireplace. Ha!
I think I'll fix us
a nightcap.
I wish I knew the proper way
to present you to people.
(pouring drink)
- Why? Am I not presentable?
- No, no, no. You misunderstand.
I mean, introducing you
merely as my assistant
doesn't do you justice.
You're worth
so much more than that.
Yet, if I say nothing,
people make assumptions.
At best, they see you
as just a dazzling jewel
on my arm.
(soft jazz music playing)
- Maybe you should stop caring
what other people think, huh?
- You're right. Cheers.
- (Peggy Lee): ♪ I'm glad
I waited for you ♪
- Mmm! That's good.
- Mmm...
- Alcohol is a newly
acquired pleasure.
- ♪ But then what else
could I do ♪
♪ Yes, there were one or two ♪
- Shall we?
- ♪ I used to date with ♪
- No, I, I don't think so.
I... I'm feeling
rather tired.
- Oh, tired, really?
Would you like me
to tuck a blanket
around your legs? Maybe get you
a nice glass of warm milk?
- Oh, I see what you're doing.
No, I'm not ready for
the nursing home just yet.
Keep it simple.
(soft jazz music playing)
- ♪ I'm glad my heart
waited, too ♪
♪ That favorite dream of mine ♪
♪ Has just come true ♪
♪ I'm glad I waited ♪
♪ For you ♪
(tires screeching)
(vehicle honking)
- (intercom):
Now arriving on Platform 25,
Northeast Corridor Express
from New York City.
(indistinct announcement)
- This is his briefcase.
All right. He has a meeting
started. He wouldn't just
leave it on the train.
- (intercom): 2163 from
Union Station to New York,
Penn Station, now boarding.
- (man): All right, you think
four is going to be enough?
- (woman): I work with
Dr. Everett Barnes.
- How can I help you?
- Now listen to me. This is...
- ID?
- (woman): I've been calling
his cell. He's not answering
his phone. No one has seen him.
- You haven't seen him
in how long?
- You open the bag, please?
- (woman): I found his notes
scattered on the floor.
- (man): Ma'am, look, calm down.
- What's this?
- Personal item.
- What's in it?
- My wife's ashes.
She asked me to scatter them
at her family home.
- (woman on intercom): 2163 from
Union Station to New York,
Penn Station, now boarding.
- It's been a very painful week.
- Sorry for your loss.
Welcome to Washington.
- Thank you.
(sighing)
- (man): ID?
You're free to go.
♪ ♪
(people chatting)
(vehicles honking)
(overlapping radio chatter)
(classical music playing)
- Hello. You hear
our radio calls?
- You were specifically
instructed not to land here.
This airport's in a restricted
area. There's a quarantine.
No incoming
or outgoing aircraft
within 60 miles of New York.
- We had an in-flight emergency.
Our client was sick.
- What client?
Where is he? Let me see him.
- He left.
- Left?
Where the hell did he go?
- That way.
- You guys wait inside,
I'm gonna need to talk to you.
(dog barking)
♪ ♪
- Good to go?
(theme music)
Closed Captioning by SETTE inc.